GMTL - Generic Math Template Library
====================================

What is GMTL?
-------------

The Generic Math Template Library (GMTL) is a high-performance, extensible,
and generic math library. The design is based upon discussion with many
experts in the field of computer graphics and virtual reality, culminating the
efforts of many previous math library efforts. GMTL gives the graphics
programmer several core math types and a rich library of graphics/math
operations on those types.

This repository is a "friendly fork" for maintenance purposes. GMTL is primarily
used in [VR Juggler][] and related projects. The maintainers of this fork would
recommend an alternate library, such as [Eigen][], for general-purpose matrix and
vector math in new code.

[VR Juggler]: http://vrjuggler.googlecode.com
[Eigen]: http://eigen.tuxfamily.org/

Requirements
------------

Basic requirements are minimal:

- A C++ compiler with some template support (even Visual Studio 2003 worked at
  one time).

GMTL itself is header-only, so it needs no building.

Optional dependencies:

- SCons 2.0: If you want to build tests or the Python binding, until we've
  replaced the build system with a CMake build system

- CppUnit: for the tests. At one point a patched version was used from VR Juggler.

Installation
------------

Much like the Standard Template Library, GMTL is completely comprised of
header files. Thus there is no compilation step needed to build any libraries.
So, in a pinch, just copy the headers.
 
In order to install GMTL to `/usr/local`, use the following command. This will
install `gmtl-config` to `/usr/local/bin` and the associated header files to
`/usr/local/include`.

    # cd <GMTL_HOME>
    # scons install

If you wish to install GMTL to an alternate location, such as your home
directory, use the prefix option.

    $ cd <GMTL_HOME>
    $ scons install prefix=$HOME

This will install GMTL to the appropriate locations relative to `$HOME` -- that
is, the gmtl-config script will be installed to `$HOME/bin` and the associated
header files to `$HOME/include`.

Documentation
-------------

A FAQ, API reference, and programmer's guide are available on GMTL's web site:
<http://ggt.sourceforge.net>

They may be outdated - some of it was generated using Doxygen so you can re-run
that yourself on the code.


License
-------

> This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.
>
> This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Lesser General Public License
for more details.
> 
> You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License
along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation,
Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA


Questions
---------

For issues specific to this friendly fork, please use the GitHub issues system.

Otherwise, please feel free to email comments, questions, suggestions, etc to
<ggt-devel@lists.sourceforge.net>
